[Music]
10 minute workout
instead of a gym and jogging exercise is
a great way to get energized in the
morning but let's admit no one of us has
time for a full workout
however there are 10 simple but
effective exercises you can do to get
pumped for the day with permission of
the unique methods author Sir G Borden
we're sharing this amazing 10 minute
routine with you before starting the
exercises ventilate your room and warm
up your muscles while warming up you can
do some arm and leg swings also try to
do some squats for a start let's do 7 1
2 3 4 5 6 7
great then perform body rotations and
bends
and neck and knee warmups the next thing
you should do is just follow the
instructions they are pretty easy and
each exercise takes no longer than 15 to
30 seconds you don't need a stopwatch
I'll count for you so you can perform
the whole set while watching the video
exercise number one post with ropes this
exercise is meant for relaxation of
hands and shoulder girdle imagine that
your body is a post and your hands are
the ropes tied to it if someone turns
the post sharply the ropes will wiggle
from side to side stand with your feet
shoulder-width apart relax your hands
start rotating your body around the axis
of your spine with full weight transfer
gradually increasing exercise intensity
let's give it a try and perform it for
30 seconds for a start
you can do this exercise for as long as
you feel comfortable but be sure to
count the number of breathing cycles
inhale exhale
remember they should be divisible by 6
for example 6 12 18 36 how are you doing
there only 10 seconds left 10 9 8 7 6 5
4 3 2 1
[Music]
well done exercise number 2 harem
it will help develop agility balance and
coordination and improve blood flow in
your legs how do you do it stand on the
left leg lift the right leg so the path
I is parallel to the ground or even
higher or you can just bring your leg up
as high as you can pull your toes
towards you pull the right arm forward
but don't straighten it fully keep the
left arm down the palms should be
rounded and relaxed as if holding two
balls close your eyes and try to keep
your balance finally get up on your toes
you should do this exercise for as long
as you feel comfortable but no less than
10 seconds are you ready
I'll count for you ten nine eight seven
six five four three two one for better
results you should repeat the exercise
three to five times for a start let's
repeat it two more times
here are your ten seconds again we don't
want you to feel exhausted or tired so
don't overdo it
be careful only five seconds left five
four three two one and one more time the
last one I promise
ten seconds are all yours
[Music]
exercise number three roll this exercise
can help you strengthen your spine
improve spinal cord blood flow and
relieve stress and fatigue how is it
done
sit on the floor pull your legs towards
yourself clasping them with both hands
round your back as much as possible lean
backwards roll on your back and return
to the starting position do this
exercise for several breathing cycles
but not less than 12 times we can start
with 10 reps because we don't want to
feel like a dish towel right so sit on
the floor and I'm going to count 10 reps
for you ten nine eight seven six five
four three two and one that was easy
right
by the way you should do all the
exercises one after another only
stopping to rest if you need it
[Music]
exercise number four Hummer it is meant
for relaxation of the spine particularly
between the shoulder blades the exercise
should be done together with the roll
exercise lie down on your back put your
right hand on your left shoulder and put
your left hand on your right shoulder
round your back as much as possible lift
your torso and start capping your back
on the floor do this exercise for
several breathing cycles but not less
than twelve times again we'll do 10
ready go
ten nine eight seven six five four three
two and one keep going your dream body
is on the way
exercise number five stretching this
exercise is meant for relief and
relaxation this is a compensation
posture which should be performed right
after the role and hummer exercises lie
down on your back cross your fingers and
pull your hands up as far away from your
shoulders as possible the toes are
pointed how many reps should you do well
you can do this exercise for as long as
you feel comfortable what do you think
about 10 reps for a start I'm going to
count again ten nine eight seven six
five four three two and one
well done do all the exercises nice and
easy don't push yourself too hard if you
feel tired pause the video and take a
break
[Music]
exercise number six candle
lie down on the floor with your legs
extended towards the ceiling put your
hands on your hips or lower back for
support in the latter case you will be
able to lift your legs higher point your
toes up toward the ceiling neck muscles
should not be tensed do this exercise
for several breathing cycles I'll give
you 15 seconds this exercise helps to
improve cerebral blood flow produces a
beneficial effect on your whole body
regular exercising improves your memory
mental performance and efficiency
reduces the number of hours you sleep
and slows your breathing down
are you done no time to be lazy let's
move on to the next exercise exercise
number seven
sphynx and Cobra
lie down on your stomach leaning on your
forearms lift your torso and hold keep
your forearms parallel to each other
[Music]
look forward lower your shoulders and
point your toes
this is Sphinx now lift your torso with
your hands arching your back even more
and looking forward and upward this is
Cobra then come back up to Spinks pose
you should do this exercise for several
breathing cycles 15 seconds are yours
[Music]
the exercise strengthens your back and
makes your spine more flexible
keep going till the time runs out if you
need a break pause the video and drink
some water but do not sit down keep
moving only three exercises left
[Music]
exercise number eight embryo
this is a compensation posture after
arching your back it is necessary to let
your spine relax by rounding it as much
as you can lower your hips to the heels
keeping the knees together lean forward
and round your back as far as you can
wrap your arms around your knees or just
stretch forward you should do this
exercise for several breathing cycles
until full relaxation is achieved
15 seconds will be enough for a start
this exercise stimulates the digestive
organs and prevents the deposition of
calcium in the joints only 5 seconds
left 5 4 3 2 1
[Music]
exercise number nine twisting
sit on the floor with your right leg
straight out in front of you place your
left foot on the ground outside of your
right thigh turn your torso to the
opposite side with your right hand
pressed against the floor and your left
hand pressed against the knee repeat the
exercise on the other side do this
exercise for as long as you feel
comfortable
but don't forget about breathing cycles
let's start with 15 seconds keep in mind
that your head should be turned in the
direction opposite to the twist this
enhances the effect of exercise this
exercise improves your spines mobility
and flexibility stretches your muscles
and reduces the size of your waist it's
also an excellent way to prevent back
pain you know what we're on to the last
exercise
[Music]
exercise number 10 bends stand with your
feet about double shoulder width apart
hold your arms straight out from your
sides without changing the position of
your arms side bend to the left hold the
pose for several breaths and then return
to the starting position now side bend
to the right and hold the pose for the
same number of breaths bend forward with
your right hand touching your left ankle
extend your left arm upward and turn
your head to look toward it hold the
pose for several breaths and return to
the starting position then repeat with
the other leg
once finished you can do a back bend
which makes a great compensation for
lateral bends do this exercise for as
long as you feel comfortable the
exercise helps to strengthen your spine
and lower back muscles and stretch the
tendons for a start do it for 15 seconds
not only can you do these exercises in
the morning but you can do them during
the day as well this will help you relax
and relieve stress simple and very
useful this training program deserves to
be called magical great job by the way
have you ever tried these exercises
before if so share your experience in
the comments don't forget to hit the
like button below the video share it
with your friends and click subscribe to
stay on the bright side of life
you